# 91. Decode Ways

* Medium
*   A message containing letters from `A-Z` can be **encoded** into numbers using the following mapping:

    ```
    'A' -> "1"
    'B' -> "2"
    ...
    'Z' -> "26"
    ```

    To **decode** an encoded message, all the digits must be grouped then mapped back into letters using the reverse of the mapping above (there may be multiple ways). For example, `"11106"` can be mapped into:

    * `"AAJF"` with the grouping `(1 1 10 6)`
    * `"KJF"` with the grouping `(11 10 6)`

    Note that the grouping `(1 11 06)` is invalid because `"06"` cannot be mapped into `'F'` since `"6"` is different from `"06"`.

    Given a string `s` containing only digits, return _the **number** of ways to **decode** it_.

    The test cases are generated so that the answer fits in a **32-bit** integer.

    &#x20;

    **Example 1:**

    <pre><code><strong>Input: s = "12"
    </strong><strong>Output: 2
    </strong><strong>Explanation: "12" could be decoded as "AB" (1 2) or "L" (12).
    </strong></code></pre>


* [https://leetcode.com/problems/decode-ways/](https://leetcode.com/problems/decode-ways/)

### Solution - DP

On each digit(call it nth digit), there are two cases. Case one is that the next digit stands alone. In this case the number of possible decoding till the nth digit is the same as the number till the n-1 digit. Case two is that in some cases (the number formed is less than 26), the two following digits combined to form a value. Then the number of possible decoding till the nth digit is the the number till the n-2 digit.&#x20;

Therefore, dp\[n]=dp\[n-1] when we cannot form two digit number using the following two digits. And dp\[n]=dp\[n-1]+dp\[n-2] when we can.&#x20;

One ultimate case to consider, if the digit is 0.(Actually this should be tested at first) dp\[n]=0 because 0 standing alone or leading is not a part of our coding.&#x20;

```
class Solution {
public:
    int numDecodings(string s) {
        if (s.empty()){
            return 0;
        }
        int n = s.size();
        vector<int> dp(n+1);
        dp[n] = 1;
        for(int i=n-1;i>=0;i--) {
            if(s[i]=='0') dp[i]=0;
            else {
                dp[i] = dp[i+1];
                if(i<n-1 && (s[i]=='1'||s[i]=='2'&&s[i+1]<'7')) dp[i]+=dp[i+2];
            }
        }
        
        return dp[0];   
    }
};
```

